Docs/waf vault tf (#26515)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/configuration/programmatic-best-practices.mdx

Terraform to apply the correct governance policies every time you create a new
namespace.

## Terraform recommendations

- **Avoid reading or writing long-lived static secrets to Vault from Terraform**.
  Data read to, or written from, Terraform persists in the Terraform state file
  and any generated plan files.

- **Encrypt the Terraform state file**. Protect the state file with a secure,
  encrypted backend.

- **Follow the principle of least privilege**. Limit who has read/write access
  to your Terraform state file.

- **Limit direct management of Vault resources**. Use
  [Sentinel policies](https://go.hashi.co/support-block-ns-manipulation-with-sentinel)
  to limit resource management permissions for resources that should be managed
  through Terraform.

- **Use short-lived credentials** Credentials persist in the Terraform state
  file. Short-lived credentials reduce the risk of exposure in the event of a
  compromised state file.

## Terraform Vault provider recommendations

- **Use dynamic provider credentials for Vault when possible**. Dynamic provider
  credentials generate short-lived credentials as needed, which limits the need

>   for static credentials and improves the security posture of your integration.

Reviewer: Added

  When you use dynamic provider credentials, Terraform populates the environment
  variable, `TFC_VAULT_ADDR` with `address` and the workspace environment
  variable, `TFC_VAULT_NAMESPACE`, with `namespace`. Terraform then uses the
  environment variables to retrieve a value for `token`.

- **Do not hardcode Vault credentials**. If you cannot use dynamic provider
  credentials configure the Vault provider with environment variables.

<Note title="Dynamic credentials affect child token behavior">

  If you use dynamic credentials with the Terraform Vault provider, it means that
  Terraform manages the Vault token lifecycle. As a result, Vault **does not**
  create a child token and you cannot use provider arguments for managing the
  Vault child token (e.g., `token_name` argument).

</Note>

## Vault recommendations

- **Use Vault-backed dynamic credentials for different cloud providers**.
  Vault-backed dynamic credentials limits the need for unique dynamic provider
  credentials across different cloud providers so you can centralize sensitive
  data management with Vault while generating short-lived credentials with

>   multiple cloud providers.

Reviewer 2: Can we link to this page?

https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/dynamic-provider-credentials/vault-backed

Reviewer: Added

- **Use the namespace attribute in resources and data sources**. Using the
  namespace attribute of a resource, instead of a provider alias, simplifies
  your configuration and avoids the need for multiple provider blocks.

> - **Use distinct token capabilities**. Use the minimal required Vault token
>   capabilities to manage your Vault resources. For example, pulling data from a
>   KV plugin only requires the `read` capability while drift detection requires
>   `read`, `create`, and `update`.

Reviewer 2: See my suggestion below. The verbiage can be polished, but this is the corrected information.

```suggestion
- **Use distinct token capabilities**. Use the minimal required Vault token
  capabilities to manage your Vault resources. For example, reading data from a
  KV datasource and drift detection functionality only require the `read` capability. The `create` or `update` capability is required to manage the KV resource and depends on whether the resource already exists. The `delete` capability is required if you remove the KV resource from the Terraform configuration.
```

- **Migrate existing resources to Terraform**. If you created Vault resources
  outside of your Terraform provisioning workflow,
  [migrate the un-managed resources](/vault/docs/configuration/programmatic-management#migrate)

>   as soon as possible.

Reviewer 2: The "as soon as possible" feels unnecessary here.
